Document hypershift table and schema filtering (#2178)
timescale/docs: cloud/migrate-to-cloud/hypershift.md

docker run -ti timescale/hypershift:0.4 --help
```

> ### Filtering tables and schemas

Reviewer: As per https://github.com/timescale/hypershift/issues/183, we will have `Hypershift` dedicated in the sidebar. So, I wonder if we should keep the explanation regarding filtering in a separate file?

Author: I've discussed with Vineeth that he will restructure the docs when the sidebar is added.

Reviewer 2: Thanks for letting me know about that docs org issue. We can't move Hypershift in the docs right now, as we are going through a restructure. However, we already have it down to be reviewed after the restructure goes live. When that happens, we'll determine where it ends up in the left nav. Right now, though, it will remain under `migration`.

Hypershift offers filtering at the schema and table level. Filtering is
enabled through the `include_schemas`, `exclude_schemas`, `include_tables`, and

> `exclude_tables` parameters in hypershift's configuration file. Note that some

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`exclude_tables` parameters in the Hypershift configuration file. Some
```

Author: done

of these options are mutually exclusive.

> The following is an example of a hypershift configuration file with schema and
> table exclusions:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is an example of a hypershift configuration file with schema and
table exclusions:
```

Author: done

```yaml
source: postgres://postgres:password@source:5432/database
target: postgres://postgres:password@target:5432/database
exclude_schemas:
- public
exclude_tables:
- test.an_uninteresting_table
```

#### Pattern matching

Hypershift does not support pattern matching on schema or table names in either
inclusion or exclusion rules. Support may be provided for this in a future
release.

#### Include schemas

The `include_schemas` configuration can be used to provide an array of schemas
which should be included in the migration. Only objects in these schemas are
copied.

> Example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example:
```

Author: done

```yaml
include_schemas:
- public
- test
- '"FooBar"'
```

> Note: as with `pg_dump`, if there is a dependency from one schema to an object
> in another schema which is not included, the dependency will be unfulfilled,
> resulting in failure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Highlight type="note">
If there is a dependency in one schema, that depends on an object in another 
schema which is not included, the dependency is unfulfilled. This cause the 
Hypershift migration to fail. To fix this, ... FIXME.
```

Reviewer 2: This is a really complicated warning, and I'm not sure I fully understand what it's trying to say. It also needs some actionable thing for the reader. Edit as you see fit :)

Author: Thank you, this is very useful feedback!

I've tried to rework this to make it a) easier to understand, and b) have a clearer action which can be taken by the user.

Please let me know if I have actually improved this, or if there is still room for improvement.

Mutually exclusive with: `exclude_schemas`

#### Exclude schemas

The `exclude_schemas` configuration can be used to provide an array of schemas
which should not be included in the migration. Only objects which are not in

> these schemas will be copied.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
these schemas are copied.
```

Author: done

Example:

```yaml
exclude_schemas:
- public
- test
- '"FooBar"'
```

Note: as with `pg_dump`, if there is a dependency from one schema to an object
in another schema which is excluded, the dependency remains unfulfilled,

> resulting in failure to migrate.

Reviewer 2: Edit as per above ☝️

Author: Feedback as per above

> Mutually exclusive with: `include_schemas`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This does not work with [include_schemas][FIXME].
```

Author: done. I hope that the anchor links will work correctly. We shall see.

#### Include tables

The `include_tables` configuration can be used to provide an array of tables
which should be included in the migration. Only these tables are copied.

> Example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example:
```

Author: done

```yaml
include_tables:
- '"MixedCaseSchema"."MixedCaseTable"'
- public.my_table
- public.a_small_table
- other_schema.table
```

Note: as with `pg_dump`, this configuration causes only the table to be copied,
not any dependent objects (for example schemas, types, required foreign-key
relations, etc.). You must ensure that all dependent objects are present in the

> target database before copying the table with this filter.

Reviewer 2: Edit as per above ☝️

Author: Feedback as per above

> Mutually exclusive with `exclude_tables`, `include_schemas`, `exclude_schemas`

Reviewer 2: Edit as per above ☝️

Author: Feedback as per above

#### Exclude tables

The `exclude_tables` configuration can be used to provide an array of tables
which should not be included in the migration. Only these tables are not
copied.

> Example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example:
```

Author: done

```yaml
exclude_tables:
- '"MixedCaseSchema"."MixedCaseTable"'
- public.my_table
- public.a_small_table
- other_schema.table
```

Note: as with `pg_dump`, if there is a dependency on an excluded table (for
example a view), the dependency remains unfulfilled, resulting in failure to
migrate.

> Mutually exclusive with `include_tables`

Reviewer 2: Edit as per above ☝️

Author: Feedback as per above

which objects in other schemas depend.
</highlight>

This does not work in combination with [exclude_schemas](#exclude-schemas).

#### Exclude schemas

The `exclude_schemas` configuration can be used to provide an array of schemas
which should not be included in the migration. Only objects which are not in
these schemas are copied.

For example:

```yaml
exclude_schemas:
- public
- test
- '"FooBar"'
```

<highlight type="note">
It is possible for objects in one schema to depend on objects in another schema
for example, a table in the `public` schema depending on a type in the `other`
schema. Hypershift will not warn about missing dependencies on objects in
excluded schemas, instead the migration will fail.

To avoid this, ensure that you do not exclude schemas containing objects on
which objects in other schemas depend.
</highlight>

This does not work in combination with [include_schemas](#include-schemas)

#### Include tables

The `include_tables` configuration can be used to provide an array of tables
which should be included in the migration. Only these tables are copied.

For example:

```yaml
include_tables:
- '"MixedCaseSchema"."MixedCaseTable"'

> - public.my_table

Reviewer 3: Can we mention as a note that the expected format for outlining the tables is `<SCHEMA.TABLE>`?

- public.a_small_table
- other_schema.table
```

> <highlight type="note">

Reviewer 3: If my understanding is right, I remember, table-based migration will end up with the table in the target database in the `public` schema by default, even if it's part of another schema in the source database. If this is true, can we outline that here?

> - '"FooBar"'

Reviewer 2: Can we be more specific here? What are people expected to have here? Perhaps `'"<SCHEMA_NAME>"'` ?

```

<highlight type="note">

> It is possible for objects in one schema to depend on objects in another schema

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is possible for objects in one schema to depend on objects in another schema.
```

> for example, a table in the `public` schema depending on a type in the `other`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, a table in the `public` schema might depend on a type in the `other`
```

> schema. Hypershift will not warn about missing dependencies on objects in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
schema. Hypershift does not warn about missing dependencies on objects in
```

> schemas which are not included, instead the migration will fail.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
schemas which are not included. If this happens, the migration fails.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> To avoid this, ensure that you do not exclude schemas containing objects on
> which objects in other schemas depend.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To avoid this, do not exclude schemas with objects that are depended on 
by objects in other schemas.
```

Reviewer 2: Hope I didn't change the meaning here, just trying to make the sentence less complicated 😅
